Added power control sample (#23575)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/bluetooth/rssi_power_control/README.rst

.. _bluetooth_automated_power_control:

Bluetooth: Automated power control
##################################

.. contents::
	 :local:
	 :depth: 2

The Automated power control sample demonstrates how to monitor the Bluetooth® Low Energy signal strength (RSSI) and dynamically adjust the transmit (TX) power of a connected Peripheral device.
The Central collects RSSI data and sends power control commands to optimize the connection quality, which in turn optimizes the current consumption.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

You must use two compatible development kits to run this sample, one programmed with the Central application and one with the Peripheral application.

Overview
********

This sample illustrates Bluetooth LE power control by having the Central read the RSSI of an active connection and use it to adjust the Peripheral's transmit power.

> The Central directly invokes SoftDevice Controller (SDC) APIs to configure power control behavior based on RSSI measurements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The central version directly invokes SoftDevice Controller (SDC) APIs to configure power control behavior based on RSSI measurements.
```

.. _bluetooth_automated_power_control:

Bluetooth: Automated power control
##################################

.. contents::
	 :local:
	 :depth: 2

> The Automated power control sample demonstrates how to monitor the Bluetooth® LE signal strength (RSSI) and dynamically adjust the transmit (TX) power of a connected Peripheral device.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Automated power control sample demonstrates how to monitor the Bluetooth® Low Energy signal strength (RSSI) and dynamically adjust the transmit (TX) power of a connected Peripheral device.
```

.. _bluetooth_automated_power_control:

Bluetooth: Automated power control
##################################

.. contents::
	 :local:
	 :depth: 2

The Automated power control sample demonstrates how to monitor the Bluetooth® Low Energy signal strength (RSSI) and dynamically adjust the transmit (TX) power of a connected Peripheral device.
There are two versions of this sample, the central (in the :file:`rssi_power_control/central` folder) and the peripheral one (in the :file:`rssi_power_control/peripheral` folder)

> The central version of the sample collects RSSI data and sends power control commands to optimize the connection quality, which in turn optimizes the current consumption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sample for the central device collects RSSI data and sends power control commands to optimize the connection quality, which in turn optimizes the current consumption.
```

The peripheral device is simply advertising its existence, allowing the central unit to establish a connection.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

You must use two compatible development kits to run this sample, one programmed with the central application (:file:`rssi_power_control/central`) and one with the Peripheral application (:file:`rssi_power_control/peripheral`).

Overview
********

This sample illustrates Bluetooth LE power control by having the central version of the sample read the RSSI of an active connection and use it to adjust the transmit power of the peripheral version.
The central version directly invokes SoftDevice Controller (SDC) APIs to configure power control behavior based on RSSI measurements.
This approach only works on single-core platforms where the Bluetooth Controller and application run on the same core.

There are two ways to monitor the connection parameters:

> * Terminal output - Connects to the Central device's virtual serial port to view RSSI and TX power logs in real time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Terminal output - Connects to the central device's virtual serial port to view RSSI and TX power logs in real time.
```

.. note::
	Make sure no terminal is open on the same serial port when using the Python plotting script, as it requires exclusive access.
	Example of serial port - ``/dev/ttyACM1``.

This sample works only on single-core SoCs because it directly calls ``sdc_*`` functions (such as :c:func:`sdc_hci_cmd_vs_set_power_control_request_params`) that are only accessible on the core running the Bluetooth Controller.
On dual-core platforms such as nRF5340 or nRF54H20 SoCs, the Bluetooth Controller runs on the network core, making these calls inaccessible from the application core and resulting in linker errors.

Workaround for dual-core SoCs
=============================

To adapt this sample for dual-core SoCs:

1. Remove all ``sdc_*`` function calls from the application.
#. Use Zephyr HCI commands to interface with the controller:

  .. code-block:: c

     struct net_buf *buf = bt_hci_cmd_create(...);
     bt_hci_cmd_send_sync(...);

Refer to the :zephyr:code-sample:`bluetooth_hci_pwr_ctrl` sample or Nordic DevZone for reference implementations.

User interface
**************

The following is the user interface used by the two versions of this sample:

> Central:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Central device:
```
